# Mobile Development (iOS, Android, Cross-Platform)
## First things first...should you make a mobile app or stick with a website?
A mobile platform is a great space to develop your ideas for, but it’s usually not the place to start. Creating a website is commonly the first step for getting an idea up and running because its much simpler, for a variety of reasons.
1. You may need minimal setup to start developing a website. Especially if you’re creating a static site with only a frontend, the languages you’ll probably be using (HTML, CSS, JavaScript) are already understood by whichever browser you’re using, and any other tools you might need are quick to setup. Mobile development on the other hand might involve downloading a whole new IDE.
2. Testing is faster for a website. It’s as simple as refreshing the page in your browser. Testing on mobile simulators and physical devices can take a while to start up, and because you may end up having to restart your app each time you make a code change, this can feel slow after a while.
3. Some parts of mobile development are difficult to get around without the right resources; for example, if you want to make an iOS app, you will need a computer running macOS. Web development tools you might need generally run on all major platforms, thus making collaboration easier as well.

That being said though, there are several times where you might be designing a product that is intended for a mobile device. Here are a few reasons why you should create a mobile app. 
1. If it’s important to notify your users of events even when they are not actively using your product. Mobile apps can send push notifications to display information in real time. Websites can do this too, but for users on the go, it’s more likely they’ll be able to check their phones instead of their laptops.
2. If all your content does not require an internet connection. Mobile apps are able to retrieve new content when an internet connection is present, but they may still be able to show some other content without it. On the other hand, you’ll always need to be online to access any part of a website. 
3. If user and world interaction is important. Sharing information with contacts or taking and uploading photos to a social media account are usually much quicker to do on a phone than on a computer.
4. If you need to access specific features. You may need to access the camera, photo library, flashlight, current location, accelerometer, microphone, or something else. There are a great selection of mobile development APIs for working with specific devices on your phone.

Ultimately, it’s your call. We generally won't judge you based on the platform you use, so if you're just interested in learning how to develop a mobile app, that's enough reason to justify making one!

## Native vs. Cross Platform
The second thing to decide is whether to design a native or cross-platform app. Native apps can only run on a specific type of device; for example, a native iOS app won’t run on Android. Cross-platform apps can run on multiple types of devices. React-Native is the cross-development platform that we discuss, and apps written with this framework can run on both Android and iOS devices. Both approaches have their pros and cons, and we have a few of them listed below.
1. Coding time: Developing natively might require two separate implementations to run for each Android and iOS. Cross-platform allows you to write the code once, and let the framework take care of the rest in compiling and running on each device type.
2. Performance and UI: Native development wins here. With cross-platform, emphasis is on generalizability, and as a result, UI features not common to both Android and iOS might not easily be available. This might be especially apparent when designing the UI. In addition, your code may no longer be able to make certain performance optimizations because it has to prioritize being able to run on several device types. 
3. Designing the UI: Native development IDES have nice drag-drop interfaces for designing your UIs and implementing constraints. With React-Native, you will have to code it up in HTML and CSS and repeatedly test. 
4. Languages: Writing in React Native uses HTML, CSS, and a special library for JavaScript called React JS. If you already feel comfortable with web development, this might require less of a learning curve than going the native route. In addition, these are all tools commonly used in the industry, so learning them now might give you an edge in your job applications! Native development for Apple in particular requires you to use iOS or Objective-C, and you might not see yourself using these skills too frequently after the hackathon. 
5. Setting up: Native development will require you to download an IDE: either Android Studio or Xcode. For React-Native development, you may be able to get away with just downloading a few command-line tools which takes considerably less time. 

For most hackathon projects, we recommend taking the cross-platform path with React-Native just because its quicker. If you run into a point where a feature you want is not available, there are ways around this as well. That being said, it’s your choice. You will not be expected to have your app running on a variety of devices, so if you would rather tailor to one platform, that is just as fine.
