# How to find a team?
Finding a team can be difficult if you don't sign up with friends for a hackathon. However, it can also be the most exciting part of a hackathon. One of the wonders of hackathons is how it brings together cool people from all over with a plethora of experiences and backgrounds. Creating a team with completely new people can be the highlight of your experience. So how do you do this?

## Using social media platforms
Almost all hackathons will put attendees in some kind of communication channel whether that be through Facebook or Slack or something else. Sometimes there will be either a team formation channel or designated space for people to find a team. This is a good place to post what your project ideas are and how many more teammates you need. Another way to go about it could be to post a short blurb about yourself and what experience you have. That way, people who already have a project idea and need more teammates can reach out to you if they think it would fit. You can also message people who have already posted and see if your experience aligns with theirs.

## Team formation at the event
Typically, hackathons will have a time of team formation after the opening ceremony. This is the final place for you to find a team. I would recommend at least talking to a few people through the social media options beforehand so that this time is less stressful and more about getting to know the the people you've already talked to and seeing if you click in person. This time isn't usually very structured and is more similar to the same kind of conversation you would have over possible project ideas and skills that is desribed in the previous section. 

## Things to look for in teammates
In my opinion, the most important thing is to find people who you click well with. Regardless of what kind of project you do, if you like the people you are working with, it will be a fun experience. The next thing I would look for is how your experience lines up. It's good to have people who have similar levels of experience as you. That way, the work load can be distributed evenly and your team can learn the new technologies together without people feeling as though they are contributing more or less. It can also be good to have people on your team that are skilled in a variety of thing--this way you have people you can learn from and who can help guide the process of creating that thing. For example, it can be helpful to have technically inclined business majors on your team that will help pitch the idea and guide the general project direction. It can also be helpful to include a design major who can design the visual aspects of your project such as the UI/UX.

# Tips for working with your team
Working with a team can difficult. When you are working on a project for so long, people may have different expectations for each other and for what they want the outcome to be. This difference can lead to conflict amongst the team.

## Delegate
Hopefully, your team is filled with people who are passionate about your project and want to see it through. Under this assumption, I find it best to break the project up into smaller chunks. Maybe person A can work on the backend while person B can work on the frontend while person C and D are working on creating assets for your project. After a certain amount of time, people can switch between the roles and work on different things so that no everyone can learn and try the different aspects of the project. It's also helpful to work together on problems or having people come peer program or debug something that is happening. 

## Rethink expectations
If there is conflict occuring in the group, try to take a step back and figure out why. Is it because people have different ideas on how the project should turn out? Maybe people expect others to be doing more or less. Perhaps it is just because everyone is tired and frustrated from working for so long and they are taking it out on each other. Regardless of what it is, it can be helpful to get up and walk around and let your brains rest for a bit before coming back to the project. It may also be helpful for everyone to talk about what their expectations are and for the team to redefine what their end goals are so that everyone is on the same page. When conflict occurs, communication is really key and typically problems can solved by talking through it.

## Bad teammate? What to do
Sometimes, a team will just have someone who does not care or is unwilling to do work. It happens. Honestly, this is a problem just in life and is something that will help you grow and learn how to deal with this kind of situation in the future. Personally, I tend to deal with this situation just by trying to figure out why the person isn't doing what they seem to have signed up for and then determining if that is something that I can change. If it is, I will try to take the steps to either make the environment a better space for them or address the problems at hand. If it isn't, I tend to lower my expectations towards what that person will do and move forward on my work on the project. Sometimes it's best to talk to your other teammates about it and address the person as a group. There isn't a best way to deal with this situation and it can be tough to navigate. However sucky it might be in the moment, at the very least, you will come out of the situation having learned something about working with people.

Hopefully these tips helped! Most of them are just from my own experience as navigating teams can be tricky sometimes and there isn't one "right" path to dealing with it. Happy Hacking!
